g.alnaymat@ajaman.ac.ae\
k.mahfouz@ajman.ac.ae

# Data Engineering

Test 07/07/2023

## Concept

Introduction to the concept of a modern data ecosystem.

<b>ETL</b> : Extract, Transform and Load 

<b>Data Type</b> :
- Unstructured (PDF, audios, video. Or a collection of them)
- Semi-Sutructured (XML/JSON : we can add tags later on)
- Structured (SQL)

|AI|Learning Type|
|-|-|
|Descriptive Analysis (DM)|Supervised learning|
|Prediction Analysis (ML)|Unsupervised|

````
Notes :
- Model must have the right amount of data !
- Underfit vs. Normalfit vs. Overfit 
````

## Books

- Python Data Science Handbook by Jake VanderPlas
- Fundamentals of Data Engineering by Joe Reis & Matt Housley

## Project Overview

University Students Enrollment Prediction Using Machine Learning Methods

Customer cher or Attrition prediction, is predicting how many student will actualy be theire at the begging of the curse. Usefull for Decision Makup Process.

### Tasks

1. Apply DE techniques to collect suitable Data (from any university, any country,...)
2. Apply ML or DM methods on the collected Data

### Final Report

A single notebook with a technical report format. It should include a title, list of team members, summary, introduction, data description, methods, results summary, and discussion. 

### Due Time

End of last week of the program

## Introduction

- Data : datum is one sigular data, it's a fact or a set of facts. It is the raw material.
- Information : processed data.

<b>AI is all about optimal solution</b> 

The important is to find the distinctive parameter to choose the optimal one inside of a subset matching preferences/requirement.

ex : shortest path to a decision based on user preferences/requirements

