# Data Analytics

Is a process of inspecting, cleaning, transforming, and modeling data with the goal of descovering useful information,informing conclusion, and supporting decision-making. 

## Lifecycle

1. Define why you need data analysis (VOC)
2. Begin collectiong data from sources
3. Clean through unnecessary data
4. Begin analyzing the data (modeling)
5. Interpret results and apply them (VOC)

    1. Tunning <br></br>

6. to 1 : to taking into account the feedbacks or adding extra-data

Data Engineering : 1, 2 and 3

## 3 principals

- Know Your Data
- Voice of The Customer
- Always be Agile

## Data Types

### Structured Data

The most common type found in databases and data created from applications (apps or software) and code.

Desining Databases:

1. Entity Relationship Model (UML) tables, attributs, relationships
2. Schema : sketch the database implementation, cross-references (Many to Many, One to Many). 

### Common data types

All common but also classes and struct.

## Data classification

Type|Sub-Type|
|-|-|
|Continous (numeric)|interval vs. ratio vs. time
|Categorical (descriptive)|nominal(unordered) vs. ordinal(ordered)
|Discret (limited) | roulette 

```
Note :
- discret can be part of continous or categorical
```

Time is never repeated because it contains time and date.

4 levels of measurement :
- nominal
- ordinal
- ratio
- time 

## Data encoding

Process of changing the format of attribute
- Ordinal Encoding or Label Encoding
- One-hot encoding
- Binary encoding
- BaseN encoding
- Hashing

It is used to match our model input requirement.


### Label encoding
```
LabelEncoding : match interval data.
    -> generating as many columns as distincts values from the column
```

### Dummy variables

Merge variables if they never are true at the same time or infer the value based on other column value. 

### Frequency encoding

Replace the value by its frequency in the column

```
Notes:
- Using pandas to encode tuple to numerical table.
- Sparse metrics : a few one for a record and a lot of zero
```

### Mean encoding

1. Translate string data to integer
2. Replace the value by its frequency

### Binary encoding

Boolean column where the number of column is egual to the number of unique values in the list.

BaseN can be used.

### Hashing 

## Data Storage

Steps : 

1. Conceptual Model Design : business understanding with the end user.
2. Logical Model Design : abstraction build on the conceptual model, identifie the relation.
3. Physical Model Design : logical schema.

````
Note : 

Neo4j -> graph DB
````

### Normalization vs. Denormalization

- Normalization : avoid data redundancy
- Denormalization : regroup mutliple table in one table with redundancy

In the data warehouse all the data are denormalization.

### Scalling

|OS|Scalling|
|-|-|
|SQL|vertically|
|NoSQL|horizontally|

NoSQL scale easily : Volume, Velocity, Variety
And it has metadata to accelerate access.

### Join Data

|Join|Definition|
|-|-|
|Inner|intersections only| 
|Left|if left value have none link on the right they are null|
|Right|if right value have none link on the left they are null|
|Full|all rows will show|
|Self|recursive relationship. if a contact id is a custumer and a furniseur| 
|Outer|union without intersection|
|Cross|not very usefull, 'cause all left columns will be paired with all right columns even if caracteristics not match|
|Natural|join on a column with the same name and type|
