m.albetar@ajman.ac.ae

# Introduction Artificial Inteligence 

## Introduction

Data Centric : build the model from data
vs.
Research : searching for the optimal solution

Aim : AI pricinpal, algorithm and technique.

Test cours3 (jeudi ou vendredi?)

### Best Book

Artificail Intelligence A modern Approache by Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig

### Definition evolution 

- « AI purpose to consider the question, can machines think ? » - Alan Turing, 1950
- « The branch of computer science concerned with making computers behave like humans »- John McCarthy 1956
- « The science of making machines do things that would require intelligence if done by men » - Marvin Minsky
- « AI is the study of intelligence using the ideas and methods of computation » - Fahlman
- « A bridge between Art and Science » - McCorduck
- « AI may be defined as the branch of computer science that is concerned with automation of intelligent behavior » – Luger & Stubbefield 

<b> Current definition </b>: AI is a new technical science that studies and develops theories, methods, techniques, and application systems for simulating and extending human intelligence.

### Subfields

|AI fields|
|-|
|Data Mining (unsupervised)|
|Machine Learning (supervised)|
|Databases|
|KDD (Knowledge Data)|
|NeuroComputing (searching technique)|
|Statitics|
|Pattern Recognition|

1. AI as Science : knowledge representation
    1. understand and working of the mind in mechanistic terms
    2. understand intelligent thought processes based on set of facts / rules
<br></br>

2. AI as Engeneering : How to make more intelligent computer based systems ? (machine learning)
    1. automatically
    2. autonomy
    3. flexibility
    4. easier systems
    5. more perfomant systems

AI > Machine Learning > Deep Learning (simulate how our brain works → multi layer perceptron (MLP) → image/sound/text)	

## Where does it come from ? 

### School of though lead to AI fields 

1. Symbolism 

Is the cognitive process of human being is the process of inference and operation of various symbols (lisp).
Cognition is the process of symbol processing while inference refers to the process of solving problems by using heuristic knowledge and search.

2. Connectionism

The basis if thinking is neurons rather than the process of symbol processing.

3. Behaviorism

Intelligence depends on perception and action.
Intelligence requires no knowledge, representation, or inference. AI can evolve like human. 

### History

1956-76 : first boom, end because of failed projects \
1976-1983 : insuficient computing capabilities, high computing complexity ; great diffuclty of inference realization\
1982-1987 : second periof of boom, expert systems \
1987-1997 : second period of ebb\
1997-2010 : period of recovery, computing performance ++, internet technologies got popularize, invention of deep learning \
2010-… : big data

(Google File System : big data in 2006)

### Requirement

- Data (input, output, knowledge) : \
Data is miningless, Information is data with mining, Knowledge is processing information, MetaKnowled is based on knowledge, Wisdom is based on metaknowledge

- Process :\
Classification, searching optimal solution, forcasting, clustering, segmenting images,… and many more. Must be programmed : PROLOG then LISP (logical) then today is Python 

Other point of view:
- data
- algorithm
- computing power
- scenario 

## Types of AI

- Strong AI : based on the rational aspect of our mind. Based on logic, expert system with zero errors
- Weak AI : this is where the human variability shows up. With error, because based on human data

### Classification of Intelligent Robots :

|Behavior|Type|
|-|-|
| "think like human being" | weak AI |
| "acting like human beaing" | weak AI |
| "thinking rationaly" | strong AI (currently no inteligent robot due to lack of brain science)
| "acting rationaly" | weak AI |

### Two Fundamental AI research area

- Knowledge representation: represent the computer's knowledge of the world by some kind of data structures in the machine's memory
- Search : a problem-solving technique that systematically explores a space of problem states

## Systems

### Expert System

Projects :
- DENDRAL : organical molecules
- MYCIN : diagnose and prescribe treatment + provide a clear and logical explanations of its reasoning 
- ...

Difficulties :
- Capturing 'deep" knowledge
- Lack of robustness and flexibility
- Inability to provide deep explanation
- Dificulties in verification
- Little learning from experience 

### Natural Language Understanding and Semantic Modeling

Mixture of extensive spectific background knowledge and general contextual language, usualy based on deep learning.

## Conclusion

If a problem have a algorithm solution, IA is useless because it lead to errors wheareas most of algorithm are 100% accurate 

For deep learning, their is 3 operations : 
- mutation
- selection
- cross-over

The proces is repeated until optimal solution is found. 